README.md, before:

# proxy_method

Prevent running an inherited method directly.

The purpose of this gem is to prevent directly running the inherited
methods you choose to block, and instead raise a custom Error message.
The original method can still be called under a different name.

This was created to help enforce the use of interactors over directly
calling ActiveRecord methods like create, save, and update. One downside
of interactors is that they require top-of-mind awareness in order to use
them, and by default new/forgetful/overworked developers will create
ActiveRecord instances all willy nilly until society crumbles.

While this was created for ActiveRecord models specifically, it works
with *any* inherited methods. The method being proxied has to already
exist, or it can't be overridden.

## Usage

Given these basic classes:

    class Animal
      def self.create
        'created'
      end
    
      def save
        'saved'
      end
      
      def update
        'updated'
      end
    end
    
    class Turtle < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
    
      proxy_class_method :create
      proxy_instance_method :save
      
      # for instance methods, you can also just call "proxy_method"
      proxy_method :update
    end

You can do this:

    Turtle.create
    # => RuntimeError: Disabled by proxy_method
    
    Turtle.new.save
    # => RuntimeError: Disabled by proxy_method
    
    Turtle.unproxied_create
    # => 'created'
    
    Turtle.new.unproxied_save
    # => 'saved'

Specify a custom error message:

    class CustomCow < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
      
      proxy_method :save, message: "Don't save here, use an interactor!"
    end
    
    CustomCow.new.save
    # => RunTimeError: Don't save here, use an interactor!

Specify multiple methods at once:

    class MultiMonkey < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
      
      proxy_method [:save, :update], message: "Use an interactor!"
    end
    
    MultiMonkey.new.save
    # => RunTimeError: Use an interactor!
    
    MultiMonkey.new.update
    # => RunTimeError: Use an interactor!    

Supply your own prefix for the original, unproxied method:

    class PrefixPelican < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
      
      proxy_method :save, prefix: 'pelican_'
    end
    
    PrefixPelican.new.pelican_save
    # => 'saved'

"Unproxy" an instance:

    class DefaultDuck < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
      
      proxy_method :save
    end
    
    duck = DefaultDuck.new.unproxied
    duck.save
    # => 'saved'

## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'proxy_method'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle
```

Or install it yourself as:
```bash
$ gem install proxy_method
```

## Contributing
Feel free to fork and create a pull request. 

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

update README for unproxied classes/instances

README.md, after:

# proxy_method

Prevent running an inherited method directly.

The purpose of this gem is to prevent directly running the inherited
methods you choose to block, and instead raise a custom Error message.
The original method can still be called under a different name.

This was created to help enforce the use of interactors over directly
calling ActiveRecord methods like create, save, and update. One downside
of interactors is that they require top-of-mind awareness in order to use
them, and by default new/forgetful/overworked developers will create
ActiveRecord instances all willy nilly until society crumbles.

While this was created for ActiveRecord models specifically, it works
with *any* inherited methods. The method being proxied has to already
exist, or it can't be overridden.

## Usage

Given these basic classes:

    class Animal
      def self.create
        'created'
      end
    
      def save
        'saved'
      end
      
      def update
        'updated'
      end
    end
    
    class Turtle < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
    
      proxy_class_method :create
      proxy_instance_method :save
      
      # for instance methods, you can also just call "proxy_method"
      proxy_method :update
    end

You can do this:

    Turtle.create
    # => RuntimeError: Disabled by proxy_method
    
    Turtle.new.save
    # => RuntimeError: Disabled by proxy_method
    
    Turtle.unproxied_create
    # => 'created'
    
    Turtle.new.unproxied_save
    # => 'saved'

Specify a custom error message:

    class CustomCow < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
      
      proxy_method :save, message: "Don't save here, use an interactor!"
    end
    
    CustomCow.new.save
    # => RunTimeError: Don't save here, use an interactor!

Specify multiple methods at once:

    class MultiMonkey < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
      
      proxy_method [:save, :update], message: "Use an interactor!"
    end
    
    MultiMonkey.new.save
    # => RunTimeError: Use an interactor!
    
    MultiMonkey.new.update
    # => RunTimeError: Use an interactor!    

Supply your own prefix for the original, unproxied method:

    class PrefixPelican < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
      
      proxy_method :save, prefix: 'pelican_'
    end
    
    PrefixPelican.new.pelican_save
    # => 'saved'

Use an "unproxied" version of an instance:

    class DefaultDuck < Animal
      include ProxyMethod
      
      proxy_method :save
    end
    
    duck = DefaultDuck.new
    duck_unproxied = duck.unproxied
    
    duck.save
    # => RunTimeError: Disabled by proxy_method 
    
    duck_unproxied.save
    # => 'saved'


This is important, because if you proxy a method like `#save` in ActiveRecord,
you're also preventing the natural use of `#create` and `#update` since these
rely on `#save` under the hood. "Unproxying" the entire instance then frees
an interactor to use `#create`, `#update` and `#save` in an intentional way.

You can also use an unproxied version of the entire class:

    duck = DefaultDuck.new
    duck_unproxied = DefaultDuck.unproxied.new
    
    duck.save
    # => RunTimeError: Disabled by proxy_method 
    
    duck_unproxied.save
    # => 'saved'


## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'proxy_method'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle
```

Or install it yourself as:
```bash
$ gem install proxy_method
```

## Contributing
Feel free to fork and create a pull request. 

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
